+++
date = "2017-09-19T13:10:06-07:00"
draft = false
title = "Motivations"
weight = 10

+++
Why do I get up in the morning?
---------

<p>I profoundly enjoy learning, and I have a deeply engrained passion for pushing my physical limits. When I grow weary of one pursuit, I switch to the other, and that cycle comprises the majority of my waking moments. I grew up dabbling in a dozen different sports (never football though, thanks mom) and ultimately settled on lacrosse and wrestling. The North East (particularly New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania) are national powerhouses in wrestling, frequently sending their varsity athletes to top D1 programs. I started wrestling later than most young boys, so I focused on athleticism and nutrition over technique. Although prioritizing technique would have been a more prudent decision, my path led me to a focus on strength training and conditioning. A coach introduced me to Crossfit in 2010, and I earned my Level 1 Trainers certificate in September 2011. This path developed an intrinsically competitive, near-masochistic perspective on exercise, and along the way hit some benchmarks that were very important to me, including a 5:16 mile and a 465lb deadlift at the age of 19. My physical priorities decreased after entering college, as my focus shifted towards meeting people, exploring New York City, and learning. I pushed strength training and conditioning on my own programming for about two years before I hit a wall and injured myself, severely straining my lower back after completing a Crossfit workout twice with only a few minutes of rest in between.  </p>
<p>Most injuries are a blessing in disguise, as it reveals an error in calibrating recovery windows, and exposes issues in mobility and positional strength. I took a step back to think about my goals, and I shifted to a hybridized powerlifting + conditioning program from the coaches at Barbell Shrugged. After graduating, I was able to take create much greater consistency in my sleep/wake cycle (or at the very least, ensuring I got adequate sleep regardless of when I shut my eyes for the night). I moved to San Diego with my partner Julianne, who I met halfway through my time at Fordham. She was opening up Warby Parker's first retail location in San Diego, while I was hoping to develop my technical skills while taking advantage of the educational resources in the area. After some research, I found David Miller, co-owner and head weightlifting coach at Crossfit Fortius, who holds a USAW-L4 certification and won Gold at the 2013 PanAms in the 69kg weight class. This relationship began my journey into olympic weightlifting, and the community within the gym became my home while living in San Diego.   </p>
<p>I did not have good luck entering the biotech industry in San Diego, so despite physical growth, I needed a meaningful career path. We turned our sights to San Francisco, and in just a few weeks I received more interviews than months of job searching in San Diego. Julianne and I both committed to software development as our respective career path. We had different reasonings, but ultimately felt stagnant and jaded with our outlook on a future in marketing, retail, or sales. With programming, we realized it was possible to uniquely blend creative desires with highly analytical, process-driven thinking, and it also allows the freedom to shift between industries and work remotely.  </p>
<p> Marin County, just north of San Francisco over the Golden Gate Bridge, is the birthplace of modern mountain biking. Previously it was unimaginable to foresee selling my car, commuting via bicycle, and learning the intricacies of the sprawling trails in Marin. I feel like a maturing embyro on the mountain compared to some of the leathered retirees who have been bombing up and down the mountains for decades, yet it feels absolutely incredible to get out there away from the digital metropolis that is the Bay Area. A slew of mobile applications have made exploring new territory and ultimately making it home safely easier than ever before, and I am happy to call this unique environment my home for the forseeable future.
